They absolutely put on a show
to dress me up in nice clothes
and shoes before
I was released, when my girls and I
were barefoot for 50 days
and we were cold because we were wearing
short sleeves in November.
It's one big show journey
to share,
opening up and revealing
what really happened to her
and her two young daughters.
While held captive by Hamas
for nearly 50 days.
Once you got into Gaza,
what happened again?
But then we got into our hiding place,
an apartment that belonged to a family.
We were inside the room
without the ability to get out,
of course.
Closed door, closed window.
And after 16 days, they relocated us
to another place, a so-called hospital.
Did anyone tell you what was going
on, why you were there?
Were they members of Hamas?
They didn't give us a lot of information.
They mainly tried to say that
Hamas wants to release us.
But in Israel,
no one cares about us, which wasn't true.
We didn't believe most of the stuff
that they were saying.
And of course, it wasn't true.
Just over the border in Israel,
Darren's husband, Yoni,
never gave up hope.
Why is daddy not coming?
The stuff
that they've seen on October 7th,
I couldn't hide from them.
It's like we were in a war movie.
But after that,
it was very important to me
that they wouldn't feel a danger.
And I told them
there are no terrorists anymore
and we are
good people who are guarding us
until we can return home.
Were they good to you?
The people at our welcome,
they didn't physically harm me,
but there was
a lot of psychological warfare.
Like, what challenges are
that we want to return
to live in the kibbutz?
Because it's not our house.
It's not the place where we belong.
Did you know if they were Hamas or
just citizens in Gaza at a local level?
They didn't
give me a lot of info about them.
I don't even know their names.
I guess that the father is with Hamas,
but they didn't even give me much info.
I just know he worked
at Israel in the past,
and that's how he knows Hebrew
and that's how we communicated.
Were there other children there can?
Yes.
He had children and grandchildren,
and basically his children
were watching us. 24 seven.
I asked every day about my family
if they knew anything about Gary,
about my brother.
About my brother's baby girl.
They didn't give me any answers.
Why do you think they moved you after
16 days?
I think they tried to get our
hostages together
because the day that we arrived
to this so-called hospital,
other hostages arrived there as well.
And that was the first time
that I've met other hostages.
Why do you keep saying so-called hospital
hospital needs to treat sick people?
It doesn't hold hostages.
There were a few times
when the girls had high fever
and they were sick
and I had to take care of them
and I needed to get the medication.
So they brought someone who they said
that was a doctor
And the next day
I got medication from him for the girls.
But it wasn't enough.
I used to put a wave in the sink
with cold water
to bring down her temperature,
but she was screaming
and they would tell us to keep quiet.
And the girl had high fever,
but I had to take care of her somehow.
And were you worried that by mistake that
you and your girls would have
been in danger
as Israel was trying to retrieve you?
I heard the fighting.
And yes, we were scared.
The noises were very strong, very loud.
But at least that's how we knew
that something was going on
in order to get us back home
to put the pressure on Hamas
to release us.
What did you fear the most
when you were there?
surprisingly
it was the day that we were released
They were smuggling us
out of the hospital
and they got us on a Hamas vehicle
to get to a meeting point
with the Red Cross.
We waited a long time for the Red Cross,
and we were very scared
because we didn't know what was going on.
No one gave us any info.
Once the Red Cross
vehicles had arrived, thousands
of Gazans,
thousands children,
elderly everyone
came in
and started to climb on the cars
and bang on the cars.
I was holding
my girls and I was scared of a lynch mob.
And this was the first time
that Rose has said to me,
after a month
and a half of me
protecting her mommy, I'm scared.
Today, the girls are back in kindergarten
and with family therapy
for the most part, are readjusting well.
There was one day
that they saw a tractor here
and they asked if the evil men are here.
And I had to tell them, no,
the tractor does not belong
to the evil men.
The evil men are in jail.
And while they mourn their grandmother,
my mom,
Doron, says the healing
cannot really begin
until all of the remaining
129 hostages are released.
Including God, Moses, I.
The word has to understand
the reality that the hostages are in.
I don't want to think
about how they're treating men.
They're
how they're treating the young women
that are there.
People who kidnap children
and old people are not human.